# Disease-Prediction-ML-
The following project uses concepts of Machine Learning and helps identify diseases with the help of symptoms This poses huge real-life applications. 

Disease Prediction System Using Machine Learning

This repository contains a Python project that uses machine-learning techniques to predict diseases based on symptoms provided by the user. The system utilizes various machine learning models, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Naive Bayes, and Random Forest classifiers, to predict the disease based on the input symptoms.

Table of Contents
- Overview
- Installation
- Usage
- Functionality
- Testing

  
Overview

The Disease Prediction System is designed to assist in predicting diseases based on a given set of symptoms. The project employs popular machine learning models to provide accurate predictions. It is implemented using Python and utilizes libraries such as NumPy, pandas, scikit-learn, Matplotlib, seaborn, and more.


Installation

Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:

bash
Copy code
git clone (https://github.com/Aarjav-2609/Disease-Prediction-ML-.git
Navigate to the project directory:

bash
Copy code
cd Disease-Prediction-ML-
Ensure you have the required Python libraries installed. You can install them using pip:

Copy code
pip install numpy pandas scipy scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn
Download the necessary dataset files (Training.csv and Testing.csv) and place them in the appropriate directory.



Usage

Open the Python script disease_prediction.py in your preferred Python environment.
Run the script to initiate the Disease Prediction System.
The system prompts you to input a list of symptoms separated by commas (,). For example:

Copy code
Itching,Skin Rash,Nodal Skin Eruptions
The system will then predict the disease based on the provided symptoms using the trained machine-learning models.


Functionality

The project starts by importing required libraries and reading the dataset.
The dataset is preprocessed by encoding the target values using LabelEncoder and splitting it into training and testing sets.
Various machine learning models (SVM, Naive Bayes, Random Forest) are initialized and evaluated using cross-validation.
Confusion matrices are generated to visualize the performance of each model.
The models are trained on the entire dataset for final predictions.
A function to predict disease is defined to predict diseases based on user-input symptoms.
The function takes a string of symptoms separated by commas as input and generates predictions using the trained models.
The final prediction is made by taking the mode of predictions from different models.


Testing

To test the functionality of the Disease Prediction System:

Run the script disease_prediction.py as mentioned in the Usage section.

Enter a list of symptoms separated by commas as prompted by the system.

Observe the predictions generated by the machine learning models.
